_pages/archive.md, before:

---
layout: single
title:
excerpt: "Archiv Blackhoodie"
modified: 2017-08-08T19:44:38.564948-04:00
permalink: /archive/
header:
    image: /assets/images/banner_1.png
---

**#BlackHoodie17 -3rd Edition Archive**

**Friday, November 24th, 2017**

##### Location: Room A

| Time | Talk | Presenter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
|10:00| Arrival & Welcome | Blackhoodie alumnae |
|11:00| [Flash dumping](/assets/archive/flash_dumping_-_kylma.pdf) | [kylma](https://twitter.com/_kylma) |
|11:30| [SMT solvers in malware analysis](/assets/archive/debfuscation_smt_solvers_barbie.pdf) | [barbie](https://twitter.com/barbieauglend) |
|12:00| Monitoring engineers with the cloud | [Carly](https://twitter.com/_5chn31d3r_) |
|12:30| ------------------------------  Lunch Time
|02:00| Sandbox evasion using junk (stalling) code | Myshelle |
|02:30| [Network Forensics - Follow the Bad Rabbit down the wire](/assets/archive/network_forensics_-_essy.pdf) | [Casheeew](https://twitter.com/casheeew) |
|03:00| Tracing/MitM between phone and SIM card with SIMtrace | [Chrysh](https://twitter.com/chrysh4) |
|03:30| ------------------------------  Break
|04:00| [Kernel Shim Engine for fun](/assets/archive/Kernel_Shim_Engine_for_fun_-_pwissenlit.pdf) | [Gaby](https://twitter.com/pwissenlit) |
|04:30| [Malware analysis for policy muggles](/assets/archive/malware_analysis_policy_-_marasawr.pdf) | [marasawr](https://twitter.com/marasawr) |
|05:00| Greetings | [Mari0n](https://twitter.com/pinkflawd) |
|05:30| Thank you / Lightning talks / round table | ALL |

**Saturday November 25th, 2017**

##### Location: Room B

| Time | Talk | Presenter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
|09:00| Writing ARM Shellcode Part 1 | [Azeria](https://twitter.com/Fox0x01) |
|11:05| Writing ARM Shellcode Part 2 | [Azeria](https://twitter.com/Fox0x01) |
|13:00| ------------------------------  Lunch Time
|14h30| Deobfuscation with Miasm using Symbolic Execution | [Noutoff](https://twitter.com/__noutoff__) |

**Sunday November 26th, 2017**

##### Location: Room B

| Time | Talk | Presenter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
|09:00| [Tele-communication security](/assets/archive/VoLTE_And_VoWiFi_Priya.pdf) | [Priya](https://twitter.com/priyachalakkal) |
|11:05| Virtualization | [Cbelle](https://twitter.com/cbelle1234) |
|13:00| ------------------------------  Lunch Time
|14h30| Intro into the Windows kernel | [Gaby](https://twitter.com/pwissenlit) |


---

Commit message:

Adding blogposts
Adding link to Priya's and N1aKan's posts about Blackhoodie17

_pages/archive.md, after:

---
layout: single
title:
excerpt: "Archiv Blackhoodie"
modified: 2017-08-08T19:44:38.564948-04:00
permalink: /archive/
header:
    image: /assets/images/banner_1.png
---

**#BlackHoodie17 -3rd Edition Archive**

**Friday, November 24th, 2017**

##### Location: Room A

| Time | Talk | Presenter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
|10:00| Arrival & Welcome | Blackhoodie alumnae |
|11:00| [Flash dumping](/assets/archive/flash_dumping_-_kylma.pdf) | [kylma](https://twitter.com/_kylma) |
|11:30| [SMT solvers in malware analysis](/assets/archive/debfuscation_smt_solvers_barbie.pdf) | [barbie](https://twitter.com/barbieauglend) |
|12:00| Monitoring engineers with the cloud | [Carly](https://twitter.com/_5chn31d3r_) |
|12:30| ------------------------------  Lunch Time
|02:00| Sandbox evasion using junk (stalling) code | Myshelle |
|02:30| [Network Forensics - Follow the Bad Rabbit down the wire](/assets/archive/network_forensics_-_essy.pdf) | [Casheeew](https://twitter.com/casheeew) |
|03:00| Tracing/MitM between phone and SIM card with SIMtrace | [Chrysh](https://twitter.com/chrysh4) |
|03:30| ------------------------------  Break
|04:00| [Kernel Shim Engine for fun](/assets/archive/Kernel_Shim_Engine_for_fun_-_pwissenlit.pdf) | [Gaby](https://twitter.com/pwissenlit) |
|04:30| [Malware analysis for policy muggles](/assets/archive/malware_analysis_policy_-_marasawr.pdf) | [marasawr](https://twitter.com/marasawr) |
|05:00| Greetings | [Mari0n](https://twitter.com/pinkflawd) |
|05:30| Thank you / Lightning talks / round table | ALL |


**Saturday November 25th, 2017**

##### Location: Room B

| Time | Talk | Presenter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
|09:00| Writing ARM Shellcode Part 1 | [Azeria](https://twitter.com/Fox0x01) |
|11:05| Writing ARM Shellcode Part 2 | [Azeria](https://twitter.com/Fox0x01) |
|13:00| ------------------------------  Lunch Time
|14h30| Deobfuscation with Miasm using Symbolic Execution | [Noutoff](https://twitter.com/__noutoff__) |


**Sunday November 26th, 2017**

##### Location: Room B

| Time | Talk | Presenter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
|09:00| [Tele-communication security](/assets/archive/VoLTE_And_VoWiFi_Priya.pdf) | [Priya](https://twitter.com/priyachalakkal) |
|11:05| Virtualization | [Cbelle](https://twitter.com/cbelle1234) |
|13:00| ------------------------------  Lunch Time
|14h30| Intro into the Windows kernel | [Gaby](https://twitter.com/pwissenlit) |



##### Impressions from Blackhoodie17

| [Yet another edition of BlackHoodie](https://insinuator.net/2017/12/yet-another-edition-of-blackhoodie-blackhoodie17/) by [Priya](https://twitter.com/priyachalakkal) |
| [Blackhoodie17, of reverse and women](https://www.digitalsecurity.fr/en/blog/blackhoodie17-reverse-and-women) by [N1aKan](https://twitter.com/N1aKan) |


---
