---
layout: single
title: "Blackhoodie event at HackLu 2018"
exerpt: "Reverse Engineering Workshop for women"
tags: [workshop, conferences, BlackHoodie, spinoff]
date: 2018-05-30 00:00:00 -0500
---

Hey you all,

We are running another spinoff Blackhoodie event at HackLu 2018 on October 15th in Luxembourg. Like with the first spin off in March, we are going to have 2 workshops on Security related topics including  Malware, Reverse Engineering and more.

The main motivation for Blackhoodie is being not the only woman in the room, when you are into reversing. We also have a very limited number of seats and the same training is going to be part of the HackLu agenda itself. Hence, we apologize in advance if we can't accommodate everyone, even though we wish we could and we would welcome seeing more women apply for this event.

Please apply before __September 10th__ and we will contact you regarding next steps.

How to register?
---------------------------

Blackhoodie is a free event.
To apply, tell us you the name you want us to use and why you are interested in attending Blackhoodie by writing a mail to [moreth@f-secure.com](mailto:moreth@f-secure.com).
We will get back to you after the deadline - please give us some days though!

Event date?
---------------------------
October 15th, 2018

Deadline?
---------------------------
September 10th, 2018

Where?
---------------------------
Alvisse Parc Hotel
120 Route d’Echternach, 1453
Luxembourg
[Travelling](https://2018.hack.lu/info/)

Agenda?
---------------------------
Hands-on Malware Traffic Analysis - special Blackhoodie edition
Trainer: [Veronica Valeros](https://twitter.com/verovaleros)

Hacking Mobile Data and Phone Calls  
Trainer: [Priya Chalakkal](https://twitter.com/priyachalakkal)

Contact:
---------------------------
E-mail: [moreth@f-secure.com](mailto:moreth@f-secure.com)
DM on twitter: [Thaís - barbie](https://twitter.com/barbieauglend)


Looking forward to see you there!
-- Blackhoodie Team
