---
layout: single
title: "Back to the beginning: BlackHoodie in Austria!"
exerpt: "Reverse Engineering Workshop for women"
tags: [workshop, BlackHoodie]
---

4 years ago, the first edition of BlackHoodie took place in Austria,
hosted by St Pölten University of Applied Science. Who could have
guessed what would happen to this 15 person workshop? After reaching
over 80 participants at last year's Berlin edition, and travelling
across the ocean for several US editions, we're now going back to
Austria for the second European edition this fall (not to be confused
with the Hack.lu edition in October)! As every other BlackHoodie
event, it'll be free, women only, and crazy challenging :D

We'll have a two days bootcamp, on the 7th and 8th of December, with
the university inviting the attendees to a typical Austrian dinner on
the 7th!

We'll also do lightning talks for the first time, more info on that
below.

## TL;DR: basic facts ##

**What:** classes on mobile reverse engineering, both hardware and
software
<!-- I think, to be corrected depending on training's titles once we -->
<!-- get them? -->

**When:** December 7th & 8th, 2019 - 9am-6pm

**Where:** [Saint Pölten University of Applied
Science](https://www.fhstp.ac.at/en), Matthias Corvinus-Straße 15,
A-3100 St. Pölten

**Who:** Women

**Registration:** September 23rd

We will run 2 sessions in parallel, each one being a 2-day
workshop. NB: there are no beginner / advanced tracks, both will be
equally as challenging and focus on different subjects

Finally, please note that we cannot cover travel or housing for
attendees. Lunch and snacks during the weekend as well as dinner on
the 7th will be offered by the University though.

---
## Agenda ##

### Track 1: Introduction to Android Reverse Engineering ###

**Teacher:** Maddie Stone
<!-- Anyone wants to add something there? -->

**Topic:** This workshop will teach attendees how to reverse engineer
Android applications. We will cover both the Java and native code
(ARM) aspects of reversing Android applications. Attendees should be
ready to get their hands dirty with reversing malware, hunting for
vulnerabilities, and unpacking obfuscated code using Ghidra and jadx.

### Track 2: Mobile Hacking ###

**Teacher:** Priya Chalakkal

**Topic:** TBA

### Lightning talks ###

Did you work on something cool lately? Now is the time to talk to us
about it! For the first time ever, BlackHoodie will host lightning
talks, giving anyone who wants it an opportunity to talk about what
they do.

**Technical details:** The talks will be 5 or 10 minutes long, and
registration will happen on-site. But keep it in mind!

### Social dinner ###

The St. Pölten University of Applied Sciences will invite the
attendees for dinner on the 7th! They plan a typical Austrian dinner
with specialties such as Schweinsbraten, Wiener Schnitzel, Gulasch,
Apfelstrudel, Sachertorte, Kaiserschmarrn and so on!

---
## What is BlackHoodie? ##

BlackHoodie is a free, women only reverse engineering workshop. More
information can be found here: <https://www.blackhoodie.re/about/>.

### Why women-only? ###

The number of female engineers working on complex low level security
topics is crushingly low. My past teaching experience shows me, that
is not due to lack of interest in challenges, but has to do with
aspiring hackerettes sporting impressive anxieties. And I get it,
modern day computer security is an intimidating field, and the fact
that this field's engineers are usually all male, fancy death metal
fashion and are offensive by definition, doesn't help. But, among us,
one doesn't need to be male and death metal to be successful
there. The BlackHoodie workshops aim to make complex subjects more
tangible and less intimidating for women, in order to get motivated
hackerettes started on their security careers. It is not about
building walls around a minority, but about creating space, where
participants can build confidence, foster shared interests, build
connections, and in the end contribute themselves as part of a happier
community. It keeps fascinating me how many former BlackHoodies keep
sticking around, and do impressive work in several different areas of
security.

- Ella, Marion, Diane, Erika

Contact: [blackhoodie.austria.2019(at)gmail.com](mailto:blackhoodie.austria.2019@gmail.com)
