---
layout: single
title: "Blackhoodie event at Troopers 2019"
exerpt: "Reverse Engineering Workshop for women"
tags: [workshop, conferences, BlackHoodie]
date: 2019-01-04 00:00:00 -0500
---

We are going to have a Blackhoodie event at [Troopers 2019](https://www.troopers.de/) on March 18th and 19th in Heidelberg. With a very exciting event last year, we have decided to roll it once again during Troopers.


As always, one of the main motivation for Blackhoodie is bringing more women into reversing and other core security topics. So we would like to see more women apply to the training slots. However, if you are not a women and still feel really excited about Blackhoodie, you are welcome to apply. We do have a very limited number of seats at this training site. So we apologize in advance if we can’t accommodate everyone, even though we wish we could! Please apply before **“February 10th”** and we will contact you regarding next steps.

## How to register?
Blackhoodie is a free event. In order to register, tell us why you are interested in attending Blackhoodie by writing a mail to [schalakkal@ernw.de](mailto:schalakkal@ernw.de.). We will get back to you with the selection outcome within a week after the deadline.

*Event date*: 18th and 19th March, 2019
*Deadline for registration*: February 10th, 2019. But apply as soon as possible.
*Where?*
Print Media Academy
Kurfürsten-Anlage 52-60
69115 Heidelberg Germany
[Getting there](https://troopers.de/travel/)

## Agenda?
TBA.. (I think we will have some exploitation, reversing.. will update when there is a clear overview ready)

## Contact:
### Priya Chalakkal
e-mail : [schalakkal@ernw.de](mailto:schalakkal@ernw.de)  
twitter: [@priyachalakkal](https://twitter.com/priyachalakkal)
