---
title: "BlackHoodie at TROOPERS 2023"
exerpt: "OSINT (Open Source INTelligence) at TROOPERS in Heidelberg"
tags: [workshop, conferences, BlackHoodie, TROOPERS]
date: 2023-05-03 00:00:00 -0500
---

OSINT (Open Source INTelligence) at TROOPERS in Heidelberg

Guess what, we’re back again! TROOPERS amazingly offered to host us for two days of BlackHoodie trainings \m/ The dates are approaching fast, and we have very limited capacity.


## **TL;DR:**

**What:** Class on OSINT (Open Source INTelligence) through the prism of Cyber Threat Intelligence (beginner)

**When:** June 26th & 27th 2023 - 9:00am-5:00pm

**Where:** ERNW office in Heidelberg (near main station)

**Who:** Women

**Registration:** [fill form here](https://tickets.ernw.de/blackhoodie/blackhoodie2023/), closing on June 20th or when all the seats are taken

**Fees:** The training and food are free; travel and accommodation is responsibility of attendees

---

## **OSINT 101: How to track the cyber baddies (2 days)**

**Teachers:** Anso, from @openfacto

**Capacity:** 25 seats

**Topic:** Join us for a thrilling workshop where you'll learn the basics of OSINT and CTI, and discover how to track down cybercriminals using (mostly) your browser.

In this hands-on workshop, you'll explore the fascinating world of cyber attacks and learn about the various profiles involved in these nefarious activities. Together, we'll dive deep into the various stages of an attack and discover how cybercriminals work together to achieve their goals.
But that's just the beginning! You'll also learn how to pivot on data from websites, social networks, and media to extract hidden or forgotten information on your target. By the end of this workshop, you'll have acquired the skills and knowledge to become a cybercrime-fighting superhero - ready to take down the bad guys with ease!

**Target audience:** Curious people from all backgrounds, who want to learn the basics of OSINT in the context of Cyber Threat Intelligence investigations.

**Key learning objectives:**

- learn what OSINT is and is not;
- get a glimpse at CTI, main threat actor types and how the cybercriminal ecosystem works ;
- study basic pivots based on personal information such as email addresses, pseudonyms, pictures,... as well as more technical data like IP addresses, domain names, certificates.



**Requirements:**

- know how to install a plugin on firefox/chromium ;
- know how to download a tool from GitHub and run a program from a terminal.


---

## **What is BlackHoodie?**

BlackHoodie is a free, women only reverse engineering workshop and community. More information can be found here:[ https://www.blackhoodie.re/about/](https://blackhoodie.re/mission/)

### **Why women-only?**

One qualifies to attend an in-person bootcamp either if born and raised female, or if one identifies as a woman. This concept of women-only has no intention of putting up walls or feeling exclusive. Blackhoodie is about creating space in an industry that’s very competitive. It is a comfortable place, where attendees feel encouraged to grow skills without pressure. We do what we do, not to create women-only bubbles, as contradicting as it might sound, but to enable a minority to enter the security space, learn skills that are otherwise expensive to learn, find their interests and grow a professional network.

And, it works. BlackHoodie alumnae have gone far beyond being successful in the classroom since the workshop series started. They ventured out to start community projects and collaborations, got themselves new jobs in the security industry, went to speak at major security conferences, joined review boards and become influencers in our community. Many went on to mentor others after they had found their spot, came back to BlackHoodie to give trainings on their own or are now conference trainers and teach classes to the community.

Finally, why does the security industry need more women at all? The industry is growing and facing a talent shortage. More importantly, jobs are typically well paid, come with certain privileges, and are challenging and often fulfilling. And we do firmly believe our society as a whole can only benefit from having more women with money, independence and confidence. Likewise, the tech sector has grown in size and influence, and with great power comes great responsibility – responsibility best shared among a diverse body of decision makers.