---
title: "Blackhoodie OffensiveCon 2025"
exerpt: "Blackhoodie OffensiveCon 2025"
tags: [workshop, conferences, BlackHoodie, OffensiveCon]
date: 2025-03-26 00:00:00 -0500
---

Hackers around the globe, listen, BlackHoodie will be at OffensiveCon this year :) For the very first time we're offering a 1-day free training, for women, by women, at the most prestigious offensive security conference. Meet us in May in the beautiful city of Berlin, to learn the intricacies or modern day compilers and how important they are for security engineers. Learn how compilers transform source code, and where an engineer can step in to modify this process. Please note, this is an intermediate to advanced course, ability to read assembly and to read C/C++ code is needed. 

## **TL;DR:**

**What:** Compiler Internals for Security Engineers

**When:** May 15th, 2025

**Where:** Berlin, Germany

**Who:** Women

**Registration:** [fill form here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSen2Fx4UhSuAzyvJNDXt4f2a6WA1SLtODy2oZAEGrCdd0sTMw/viewform), we have 15 seats, closing when all the seats are taken

**Fees:** The workshop is free; travel and accommodation is responsibility of attendees!

---

## **Agenda**

### Compiler Internals for Security Engineers


**Trainers:** @pinkflawd

**Topic:** We’ll set up an environment with which we can analyze source code through different compilation stages and by the end of the day students will be able to inject code to a given compiler stage. Students will gain understanding how compiler mitigations are placed into applications, and understand the security relevancy of a build chain. Furthermore, with skills acquired in this class students can learn how to formulate their own compiler passes for analysis, code injection or arbitrary code modifications. 

**Prerequisites:** Bring a laptop on which you're able to install software, coding skills in C or C++, and ability to read an assembly language

**Key learning objectives:** 

- Inner workings of compiler front-, middle-, and back end 
- Security relevancy of modern day compilers
- Understanding of a compiler mitigation
- Ability to inject code through an LLVM pass


## **What is BlackHoodie?**

BlackHoodie is a free, women only reverse engineering workshop and community. More information can be found here:[ https://www.blackhoodie.re/about/](https://blackhoodie.re/mission/)


### **Why women-only?**

One qualifies to attend an in-person bootcamp either if born and raised female, or if one identifies as a woman. This concept of women-only has no intention of putting up walls or feeling exclusive. Blackhoodie is about creating space in an industry that’s very competitive. It is a comfortable place, where attendees feel encouraged to grow skills without pressure. We do what we do, not to create women-only bubbles, as contradicting as it might sound, but to enable a minority to enter the security space, learn skills that are otherwise expensive to learn, find their interests and grow a professional network.

And, it works. BlackHoodie alumnae have gone far beyond being successful in the classroom since the workshop series started. They ventured out to start community projects and collaborations, got themselves new jobs in the security industry, went to speak at major security conferences, joined review boards and become influencers in our community. Many went on to mentor others after they had found their spot, came back to BlackHoodie to give trainings on their own or are now conference trainers and teach classes to the community.

Finally, why does the security industry need more women at all? The industry is growing and facing a talent shortage. More importantly, jobs are typically well paid, come with certain privileges, and are challenging and often fulfilling. And we do firmly believe our society as a whole can only benefit from having more women with money, independence and confidence. Likewise, the tech sector has grown in size and influence, and with great power comes great responsibility – responsibility best shared among a diverse body of decision makers.